---


---

<h1 id="welcome-to-explore">Welcome to EXPLORE!</h1>
<p>EXPLORE stands for microElectrode eXperimental kit with Probe LOcation Rationalization in Electrophysiology. EXPLORE is an open-source collection of 3D-printed devices and protocols which aim to provide neuroscientists tools, methods, and guidelines to carry out electrophysiological experiments in rodents.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.biorxv.org">Find us in BioRxv!</a></p>
<p>Herein, we provide 3D-printable files for our custom-made, modular, adjustable chronic implant designed to house one or two microelectrode array probes (such as the <a href="https://www.neuropixels.org">Neuropixels probes</a> or <a href="https://plexon.com/products/neural-electrodes-probes-and-arrays/">Plexon probes</a>). You will also find our custom “implant accessories”, including our implant stereotaxic holder, assembly kit, and testing kit. Last, but not least, we have designed KEPLER, a precision screwdriver which aims to assist in making micrometer-adjustments to the vertical position of the probe(s) as they are slowly introduced into the brain tissue within the implant.</p>
<p>Everything in this repository can be printed completely in-house with a consumer-grade SLA 3D printer. FDM printing is not recommended as the resulting print may not be durable or smooth enough to function correctly. We have printed and tested our implant using a <a href="https://www.formlabs.com">Formlabs</a> printer and Tough 2000 resin; Preform project files are provided herein. Other printers and/or similarly tough resins should theoretically work just as well, but we have not tested this.</p>
<h2 id="cami-our-chronic-adjustable-and-modular-implant">CAMI: our Chronic, Adjustable, and Modular Implant</h2>
<p>Our chronic implant consists of five main parts: the skull interface, implant body, shuttle, headstage interface, and cap. Each piece is functionally (mostly) independent from the next and provides a solution to a specific problem; because of this, our implant is modular. Modularity is the biggest strength of our implant as it facilitates quick, pin-pointed modifications to adapt the implant to different needs. The implant uses a screw mechanism to push the probe(s) vertically within the implant.</p>
<p><a href="">Take me there!</a></p>
<p><strong>Skull interface.</strong> The bottom of this piece will come in direct contact with the animal’s skull. It measures 8.3 x 11.6 mm at the bottom and has one hole on each side for the probe shank to come out of the implant. Ridges are located around the bottom to better hold on to the dental cement that is applied to hold the implant in place. At the top, it has a small piece which covers the bottom of the implant body’s side rail to protect the inside from debris.</p>
<p><strong>Implant body.</strong> This is the largest part of the implant. It sits between the skull interface and headstage interface and houses the shuttle piece which carries the probe(s). Inside it, a mid-line and side rail guides the shuttle piece along the vertical axis, preventing it from moving on the other two axes. It is also reinforced with a molded grid structure on the inside to better protect the fragile probes from impact.</p>
<p><strong>Shuttle.</strong> The shuttle piece holds up to two electrode array probes on its probe beds. In its basic design, it is designed to hold a Neuropixels (NP) 1.0 probe on each side, however the probe bed can be modified to hold probes of different form factors if desired. The basic design provided herein provides a 1.5 mm probe separation from the midline, or a 3 mm separation from probe to probe.</p>
<p><strong>Headstage interface.</strong> This piece allows access to the NP probes’ Flat Printed Circuit (FPC) connectors while also holding them in place to mate them with a headstage’s ZIF connector. It features a “biting” mechanism to do this, where two flat plastic pieces are inserted and tightened against the middle of the headstage interface to push the FPCs into a recessed area which prevents them from being pushed down during headstage connection.</p>
<p><strong>Cap.</strong> This piece simply covers the probes’ FPCs to protect them from debris. It is held down by a small internal latch and a small screw.</p>
<h2 id="kepler">KEPLER</h2>
<p>KEPLER is a screwdriver with a mechanical component encased inside it. It is named after Johannes Kepler, a German astronomer and mathematician best known for his <em>Laws of Planetary Motion</em>. KEPLER’s internal mechanism consists of a series of concentric, cascading <em>planetary gear systems</em> (hence the planetary motion) which slow down the user’s input turns 25 times and transfers them to its output. When coupled with a screw mechanism, the driving screw’s turns are subdivided, effectively allowing the user to make turns which will translate into micrometer-level movements.</p>
<p>In a screw mechanism, an object is “pushed” or “pulled” along the shaft of the driving screw. Each turn moves the object a distance equal to the screw’s <em>pitch</em>, or the space between each thread. Subdividing the screw’s turns will subdivide that distance proportionally, and if the pitch is small enough, each subdivision will result in a distance in the order of 10’s of micrometers. For example, if the pitch of the screw is 0.3 mm, half a turn will result in 0.15 mm. With one <em>full</em> turn at its input, KEPLER can reduce this down to 0.3/25 = 0.012 mm, or 12 um. This can be reduced further if only a half or quarter turn is made with KEPLER.</p>
<p><a href="">Take me there!</a></p>
<h3 id="why-so-much-precision">Why so much precision?</h3>
<p>Slow and controlled foreign body insertions into the brain tissue can not only reduce inflammation but also protect the fragile probe shanks from breaking by reducing the force that pushes them down. Precise adjustments are also useful when targeting and recording from specific areas of the rodent brain, which tend to be very small.</p>
<h2 id="implant-accessories">Implant accessories</h2>
<p>Implant accessories aim to facilitate implant assembly, testing, and surgery.</p>
<h3 id="assembly-kit">Assembly kit</h3>
<p>Assembling the implant is a delicate process which requires a lot of steady and slow movements to avoid breaking the fragile probes. A stereotaxic device can offer the stability needed to safely assemble the implant; thus, we designed our assembly kit around it. The kit includes a block to hold the implant components and probes as the whole device is assembled and a stereotaxic holder made specifically for loading the probe(s) into the implant. The assembly process is best done with the aid of a surgical microscope (if available) to keep an eye on the shanks to avoid breaking them.</p>
<p><strong>Implant holding block.</strong> During assembly, the probe shanks are exposed to damage from regular handling. To prevent accidents, the holding block is tall enough to encase the full length of probe shanks, and sturdy enough to stabilize the different implant pieces during assembly. We have also included an anchor tail on the holding block to keep it in place while loading the probes.</p>
<p><strong>Shuttle stereotaxic holder.</strong> To leverage the movement stability of a stereotaxic device for loading probes onto our implant, we designed a stereotaxic holder made to carry the shuttle piece and probes so that they can be manoevered around with precision.</p>
<p><a href="">Take me there!</a></p>
<h3 id="implant-stereotaxic-holder">Implant stereotaxic holder</h3>
<p>We provide a stereotaxic holder made to carry the fully assembled implant during surgery. The holder is made to firmly grip onto the implant during surgery, but also to gently release it when done. It does so through tightening or loosening a screw and nut on the holder.</p>
<p><a href="">Take me there!</a></p>
<h3 id="test-kit">Test kit</h3>
<p>It is generally good practice to carry out noise and gain tests on an electrode <em>before</em> implanting it on an animal. This is typically done by submerging the recording electrode(s) in saline solution and reading the signal that is picked up from within the solution. For a noise test, simply recording from within the saline is enough to infer the noise properties of the recording device, however for gain tests a test signal is transmitted through the saline and picked up by the electrode. The recorded signal’s nominal amplitude is compared to the test signal’s amplitude to make inferences about the device.</p>
<p>Although the hardware setup to conduct such tests is fairly simple, a lab may not always possess the materials necessary to construct it. For this reason, we provide a 3D printable saline bath testing environment. The setup simply includes a basin for the saline, spaces to glue conductive electrodes to run a rest signal, and a detachable mini-holding block for the implant. The saline bath can be used with or without the mini-holding block; if used without, one may opt for using one of our stereotaxic holders.</p>
<p><a href="">Take me there!</a></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Written with <a href="https://stackedit.io/">StackEdit</a>.</p>
</blockquote>

